## npm

`npm` is the world's largest Software Registry, containing over 800,000 code packages. Open-source developers utilize `npm` to share software. It serves as the package manager for Node.js, created in 2009 to facilitate the easy sharing of packaged modules of code among JavaScript developers.

- The `npm` Registry is a public collection of packages for Node.js, front-end web apps, mobile apps, robots, routers, and various other needs of the JavaScript community.
- An alternative to `npm` is `yarn`.

### initialize npm

```bash
npm init
```

`npm init -y` can be used to skip the setup step, allowing `npm` to create the `package.json` file automatically without configurations.

- `npm` is the command line client that allows developers to install and publish packages.

## Parcel/Webpack

`Parcel` and `webpack` are bundlers used primarily for `JavaScript` or `Typescript` code, aiding in `minifying, cleaning, and compacting code`. They make it easier to send requests or receive responses from the server, especially when transferring multiple files. These bundlers significantly reduce data transfer time and remove unnecessary elements from the code, such as comments and white spaces, while maintaining code functionality.

Usage of `Parcel/Webpack`:
Module bundlers organize and combine many files of JavaScript code into one file. A JavaScript bundler is essential when a project becomes too large for a single file or when working with libraries that have multiple dependencies.

### Installation commands:

- Install:

```bash
npm install -D parcel
```

`-D` is used for development as a development dependency.

#### Parcel Commands:
   For development build:

```bash
npx parcel <entry_point>
```

   For production build:

```bash
npx parcel build <entry_point>
```

## `.parcel-cache`

The `.parcel-cache` folder stores information about the project when Parcel builds it. This information allows Parcel to avoid re-parsing and re-analyzing everything from scratch during rebuilds, contributing to its fast development mode.

## npx

`npx` stands for `Node Package eXecute`. It is an `npm` package runner that enables developers to execute any JavaScript Package available on the npm registry without installing it. `npx` is automatically installed with npm version 5.2.

## `dependencies vs devDependencies`

- `"dependencies"`: Packages required by the application in production.
- `"devDependencies"`: Packages needed only for local development and testing.

## Tree Shaking in Parcel

`Tree shaking`, or `dead code elimination`, is the practice of `removing unused code in the production build`. It involves statically analyzing source code to determine what's not being used, excluding it from the final bundle to ship as little code to end-users as possible.

## Hot Module Replacement

`Hot Module Replacement (HMR)` exchanges, adds, or removes modules while an application is running, without a full reload. It retains application state lost during a full reload, saving valuable development time by updating only what has changed.

## Parcel features:

- Dev Build - Provides a development build.
- Local Server - Offers a local server for live changes in the application.
- HMR = Hot Module Replacement - Exchanges, adds, or removes modules while the application is running, without a full reload.
- File Watching Algorithm - Written in C++
- Caching - Faster Builds
- Image Optimization
- Minification
- Bundling
- Compress
- Consistent Hashing
- Code Splitting
- Differential Bundling - Supports older browsers
- Diagnostic
- Error Handling
- HTTPs
- Tree Shaking - Removes unused code
- Different Build for dev and prod bundles

##`.gitignore`

`.gitignore` tells Git which files to ignore when committing the project to GitHub. It is located in the root directory of the repository. Files that can be regenerated in the future, such as `node_modules` and `dist`, should not be added.

## `package.json` vs `package-lock.json`

Both files have the same format and perform similar functions. However, `package-lock.json` cannot be published and is ignored if found in any place other than the root project. `package.json` is used for defining project properties, description, author & license information, scripts, etc., while `package-lock.json` is solely used to lock dependencies to specific version numbers.

## Why should I not modify `package-lock.json`?

`package-lock.json` is a generated file and not designed for manual editing. Its purpose is to track the entire tree of dependencies and the exact version of each dependency, ensuring synchronization with `package.json`. Modifying it manually could break this synchronization.

## `node_modules`

The `node_modules` folder contains generated code and should not be committed. It is better to add it to the `.gitignore` file. Reasons for not committing it include its massive size (up to Gigabytes) and the ability to recreate it via the `package.json` file.

## `dist` folder

The `/dist` folder contains the minimized version of the source code, used on production web applications. It stands for distributable, and Parcel's default directory for output is named `dist`.

## `browserslist`

`Browserslist` defines and shares the list of target browsers between various frontend build tools, ensuring consistency in browser support across tools.
