## `JSX`

JSX stands for JavaScript XML. JSX allows us to write HTML elements in JavaScript and place them in the DOM without any createElement() and/or appendChild() methods. JSX makes it easier to write and add HTML in React, converting HTML tags into react elements.

#### Example 1 using JSX:

```js
const myElement = <h1>I Love JSX!</h1>;
const root = ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById('root'));
root.render(myElement);
```

#### Example 2 Without JSX:

```js
const myElement = React.createElement('h1', {}, 'I do not use JSX!');
const root = ReactDOM.createRoot(document.getElementById('root'));
root.render(myElement);
```
Using JSX, you can write markup inside Javascript, providing you with a superpower to write logic and markup of a component inside a single .jsx file. JSX is easy to maintain and debug.

#### Example

```js
function greeting(user) {
  //JSX
  return <h1>{user}, How are you!!!</h1>;
}
```

## `type` attribute

The `type` attribute specifies the type of the script. It identifies the content between the `<script>` and `</script>` tags. It has a Default value which is “text/javascript”.

### `type` attribute can be of the following types:

- `text/javascript`: Basic standard for writing javascript code inside the `<script>` tag.
```js
<script type="text/javascript"></script>
```
- `text/ecmascript`: Indicates that the script is following the `EcmaScript` standards.
```js
<script type="text/ecmascript"></script>
```
- `module`: Tells the browser that the script is a module that can import or export other files or modules inside it.
```js
<script type="module"></script>
```
- `text/babel`: Indicates that the script is a babel type and required babel to transpile it.
```js
<script type="text/babel"></script>
```
- `text/typescript`: The script is written in `TypeScript`.
```js
<script type="text/babel"></script>
```

## `{TitleComponent}` vs `{<TitleComponent/>}` vs `{<TitleComponent></TitleComponent>}` in `JSX`.

- `{TitleComponent}`: Describes the `TitleComponent` as a JavaScript expression or a variable. The `{}` can embed a JavaScript expression or a variable inside it.
- `<TitleComponent/>`: Represents a Component that is basically returning Some JSX value. In simple terms `TitleComponent` a function that is returning a JSX value. A component is written inside the `{<  />}` expression.
- `<TitleComponent></TitleComponent>`: `<TitleComponent />` and `<TitleComponent></TitleComponent>` are equivalent only when `< TitleComponent />` has no child components. The opening and closing tags are created to include the child components.

#### Example

```js
<TitleComponent>
    <FirstChildComponent />
    <SecondChildComponent />
    <ThirdChildComponent />
</TitleComponent>
```

#### If there are no child elements, then we can write
```js
<TitleComponent />
```
